It is a visualization aid designed to help web teams integrate accessible design choices into their practices which will result in websites that are more likely to comply with the W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.0). The poster aims to help all members of the web development team - designers, developers, writers and project managers - better understand what to do, and what it takes to make sites accessible. Each stair represents a content type or design decision that could potentially introduce a barrier to a person with a disability. Associated with each stair is list of accessible techniques that when implemented with build in the virtual the ramp ensuring access to that web content. The action-based techniques (or ramp) focus on the WCAG's POUR principles in order to help teams develop sites that are perceivable, operable, understandable and robust.

As the title says, \textit{Ramp it up} is an action based guide to creating accessible websites. It is a reworking of the W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guideline's POUR principles. The action based techniques focus on making content perceivable, operable, understandable and robust. I visualize each potential barrier that a website might contain as a step that represents a particular content type or design choice. The corresponding techniques that enable web content to be accessible are then visualized as a virtual ramp. As we make our way up the staircase the content types and design choices become more complex, thus the virtual ramp requires more awareness, skills and resources to make the virtual stairs accessible.



 The visualization is meant to focus on the guiding principles to make web content perceivable, operable, understandable and robust (POUR) without getting hung up on meeting a particular compliance level of a success criterion. This is not to diminish the importance of the success criteria, they are needed to test in the throughout the process. It has been our experience that the POUR principles should be used to guide decision making.  

Our goal with this visualization is to help designers and developers understand the guidelines, not ignore them. 

Creating websites that meet the needs of people with disabilities including auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, speech and visual impairments overlap with people with situational limitations such as being in a loud environment, having limited use of hands, using a mobile device, using old hardware or limited access to bandwidth [Henry et all 2014]. There is a long list of products that were initially designed for people with disabilities and due to there incredible usefulness for everyone were mainstreamed [Jacobs]. The telephone, the typewriter, texting are to name a few.

If the guidelines are presented in a way that is more inline with the we make decisions during the design and development process, perhaps compliance rate would improve.

This poster aims to increase awareness of accessibility and the integration of accessibility considerations into mainstream design and development processes.

Visualization can help turn complex systems into something more understandable.

A Cautionary Tale of Inaccessibility:Sydney Olympics Website
http://www.w3.org/WAI/bcase/socog-case-study

http://recueil.cmf.gc.ca/eng/2011/2010fc1197.html
"10. for the blind and visually impaired, access information and services online gives them independence, self-reliance, control, ease of access, dignity and self-esteem. A person is not handicapped if she does not need help.  Making the government online information services accessible provides the visually impaired “substantive equality.”  This is like the ramp to permit wheelchair access to a building.  It is a ramp for the blind to access online services."  

By focusing on the guidelines's principles and clear action-based accessibility techniques we hope to encourage teams to integrate accessible practices early in their processes in order to improve accessibility for everyone. 

Hanson & Richard's long term study (14-year period) found low compliance rates with the WCAG, but the study also uncovered a growing trend to adhere to some criteria. A follow-up study [Richard & Hanson] found that at least part of the improved accessibility was a side effect of changes in design and coding practices, improved browser capabilities and concerns over page search engine rankings. In another study on developer perceptions [Lazar et al], a lack of awareness and knowledge of the WCAG was found to be the most significant barrier to web accessibility.    
   
